Report.md, before:

Michael Kremer
U45121665
END EC463 A1
# 2020 Sensor Mini-Project Report

## Task 0: Set up Python Websockets
The greeting string issued by the server to the client upon first connecting is
```sh
$ ECE Senior Capstone IoT simulator
```

## Task 1: Data Flow
In order to write the data captured by ws_client.py, changes must be made to a function called by ws_client.py,
client.py

```sh
$ python ws_client.py -l data.txt
```



## Task 2: Analysis
After logging the data from ws_client.py into data.txt, the data can be analyzed by calling:

```sh
$ python analyze.py data.txt
```

This python script will calculate and print the Median and Variance of measured temperature, occupancy and CO2 values.
Below is a table with values calculated from recorded temperature and occupancy data

|                      | Office | Lab1 | Class1 |
|----------------------|-------:|-----:|-------:|
| Median Temperature   |  22.99 | 21.0 |  26.96 |
| Temperature Variance |  32.41 | 2.31 | 139.81 |
| Median Occupancy     |    2.0 |  5.0 |   19.0 |
| Occupancy Variance   |   1.94 | 5.28 |  19.89 |

![Image of PDist_co2](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_co2.png)
![Image of PDist_temp](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_temp.png)
![Image of PDist_occupancy](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_occupancy.png)

This Script also calculates and prints the Mean and Variance of time between measurements of temperature, occupancy, and CO2 in each room.
Below is a table with values calculated from the time-interval inbetween measurments

| Time inteval         | Office | Lab1 | Class1 |
|----------------------|-------:|-----:|-------:|
| Temperature Mean     |   2.89 | 2.87 |   2.99 |
| Temperature Variance |   7.43 | 9.33 |   8.41 |
| Occupancy Mean       |   2.89 | 2.87 |   2.99 |
| Occupancy Variance   |   7.43 | 9.33 |   8.41 |
| CO2 Mean             |   2.89 | 2.87 |   2.99 |
| CO2 Variance         |   7.43 | 9.33 |   8.41 |

Please note that these values have been hardcoded into this table with my collected data. If new data is used, this table will be out of date.

![Image of PDist_time_co2](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_time_co2.png)
![Image of PDist_time_occupancy](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_time_occupancy.png)
![Image of PDist_time_temp](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_time_temp.png)

## Task 3: Design

## Task 4: Conclusions

Commit message:

commenting and working on report

Report.md, after:

Michael Kremer
U45121665
END EC463 A1
# 2020 Sensor Mini-Project Report

## Task 0: Set up Python Websockets
The greeting string issued by the server to the client upon first connecting is
```sh
$ ECE Senior Capstone IoT simulator
```

## Task 1: Data Flow
In order to write the data captured by ws_client.py, changes must be made to a function called by ws_client.py, client.py

Now calling ws_client.py with this flag and argument will write all JSON data to the text file, data.txt

```sh
$ python ws_client.py -l data.txt
```

## Task 2: Analysis
After logging the data from ws_client.py into data.txt, the data can be analyzed by calling:

```sh
$ python analyze.py data.txt
```

Please note that all of the data in the tables and graphs below is from the data.txt associated with this
6372537ed613fa56e83726780b3addd828012b5c commit. If any changes are made to data.txt the following values should be close but will not be exact matches

### 1) Median and Variance of Temperature

|                      | Office | Lab1 | Class1 |
|----------------------|-------:|-----:|-------:|
| Temperature Median   |  22.99 | 21.0 |  26.96 |
| Temperature Variance |  32.41 | 2.31 | 139.81 |

### 2) Median and Variance of Occupancy

|                    | Office | Lab1 | Class1 |
|--------------------|-------:|-----:|-------:|
| Median Occupancy   |    2.0 |  5.0 |   19.0 |
| Occupancy Variance |   1.94 | 5.28 |  19.89 |


### 3) Probability Distribution Function of Each Sensor

These three charts were generated by analyze.py and saved inside of this git repo for this report
![Image of PDist_co2](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_co2.png)
![Image of PDist_temp](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_temp.png)
![Image of PDist_occupancy](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_occupancy.png)

### 4) Mean, Variance, and Probability Distribution of Time-Interval Data

| Time inteval         | Office | Lab1 | Class1 |
|----------------------|-------:|-----:|-------:|
| Temperature Mean     |   2.89 | 2.87 |   2.99 |
| Temperature Variance |   7.43 | 9.33 |   8.41 |
| Occupancy Mean       |   2.89 | 2.87 |   2.99 |
| Occupancy Variance   |   7.43 | 9.33 |   8.41 |
| CO2 Mean             |   2.89 | 2.87 |   2.99 |
| CO2 Variance         |   7.43 | 9.33 |   8.41 |

![Image of PDist_time_co2](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_time_co2.png)
![Image of PDist_time_occupancy](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_time_occupancy.png)
![Image of PDist_time_temp](https://github.com/KremerMichael/2020-sensor-miniproject/blob/main/graphs/PDist_time_temp.png)


This python script will calculate and print the Median and Variance of measured temperature, occupancy and CO2 values.
Below is a table with values calculated from recorded temperature and occupancy data

This Script also calculates and prints the Mean and Variance of time between measurements of temperature, occupancy, and CO2 in each room.
Below is a table with values calculated from the time-interval inbetween measurments

Please note that these values have been hardcoded into this table with my collected data. If new data is used, this table will be out of date.


## Task 3: Design

## Task 4: Conclusions
